more coorelation between all the documents

keep the theme the same throughout the project

show the MAGNETICs of Ninit

Use personal examples moreso, like stories of snowboarding, and real story telling

### **Non-altruistic social sanctions (common property regimes)**

Often on the foundation of game theory, experimental literature suggests that free-riding situations can be improved without any state intervention by seeking to measure the effects of various forms of social sanctions. Peer-to-peer punishment, that is, when members sanction other members that do not contribute to the common pool resource by inflicting a cost on "free-riders", is considered sufficient to establish and maintain cooperation

Social actions come at a cost to the punisher, which discourages individuals from taking action to punish the free-rider. Therefore, punishers often need to be rewarded for following through with their punishment for the resource to be effectively managed. Unlike a prisoner's dilemma where the prisoners are prohibited from communicating and strategizing, people can get together to form "common property regimes" in which the group weighs the costs and benefits of rewarding individuals for sanctioning free riders.[[12]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free-rider_problem#cite_note-Understanding_Institutional_Diversity-12) So long as the benefits of preserving the resource outweigh the cost of communication and enforcement, members often compensate punishers for sanctioning free riders.[[25]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free-rider_problem#cite_note-Governing_the_Commons-25) While the outcome is not [Pareto-optimal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto-optimal), as the group has the additional cost of paying for enforcement, it is often less costly than letting the resource deplete. In the limiting case, where the costs of bargaining and enforcement approach zero, the setup becomes Coasian as the solution approaches the Pareto-optimal solution.

We would like to explore social systems operating and coordinating under blockchain infrastructure that experiment with more rewarding social systems; avoiding punishment and focusing more on providing more benefit for contributing to social, informational, or various public goods.

These incentivization mechanisms may incorporate features such as governance voting power relative to contributions made, but may need balancing counterparts to prevent those with resouces to make decisions that benefit smaller samples of their community, such as weighted voting models, that takes the population of votes outside of their weight into account alongside a weighted count. Ratios and intracacises of the system, can vary and remain dynamic, introducing higher levels of complexitites in the system, generating higher levels of unpredictability.”

Ultimately these models and systems can be tried, tested, and configured within small social groups and settings of various demographics. Accounting for people without access to the technological resouces is possible as well through various community needs surveys. We will expedite the social progress of the systems, and look for flaws and areas of improvement, contionously re-designing the underlying infrastructure. Using AI models, we would like to generate relative data regarding the success, effeciencies, errors, and ultiamte progress of these systems, to better analyze and asses its operations and success, as well as allow citizens to eventually vote on AI/ML models that have the power to vote on governance proposals and systems as well, which can help create a more inclusive system.

**MITCH DANIELS IS** a numbers guy, a cost-cutter. In the early 2000s, he tried and failed to rein in congressional spending under then-US president George W. Bush. So when he took office as Indiana governor in 2005, Daniels was ready to argue once again for fiscal discipline. He wanted to straighten out Indiana’s state government, which he deemed rife with dysfunction. And he started with its welfare system. “That department had been rocked by a series of criminal indictments, with cheats and caseworkers colluding to steal money meant for poor people,” he [later](https://archive.courierpress.com/opinion/gov-mitch-daniels-results-in-on-welfare-overhaul-critics-may-update-complaints-ep-444074509-327265562.html/) said.

Daniels’ solution took the form of a $1.3 billion, 10-year contract with IBM. He had lofty [ambitions](https://www.in.gov/governorhistory/mitchdaniels/files/pressreleases/2006/12-28-06.html) for the project, which started in 2006, claiming it would improve the benefits service for Indiana residents while cracking down on fraud, ultimately saving taxpayers billions of dollars.

But the contract was a disaster. It was canceled after three years, and IBM and Indiana spent a decade locked in a legal battle about who was to blame.

”Today, such fraud systems form a significant part of the nebulous “govtech” industry, which revolves around companies selling governments new technologies with the promise that new IT will make public administration easier-to-use and more efficient. In 2021, that market was estimated to be worth [€116 billion](https://view.publitas.com/public-1/the-state-of-european-govtech-report/page/30-31) ($120 billion) in Europe and $440 billion globally. And it’s not only companies that expect to profit from this wave of tech. Governments also believe modernizing IT systems can deliver big savings. Back in 2014, the consultancy firm McKinsey estimated that if government digitization reached its “full potential,” it could free up [$1 trillion](https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/mckinsey-digital/our-insights/public-sector-digitization-the-trillion-dollar-challenge) every year.”

Contractors around the world are selling governments on the promise that fraud-hunting algorithms can help them recoup public funds. But researchers who track the spread of these systems argue that these companies are often overpaid and under-supervised. The key issue, researchers say, is accountability

(Very neat —> )

:Theodore Groves and John Ledyard believe that [Pareto-optimal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto_optimal) allocation of resources in relation to public goods is not compatible with the fundamental incentives belonging to individuals.[[14]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free-rider_problem#cite_note-14) Therefore, the free-rider problem, according to most scholars, is expected to be an ongoing public issue.[_[citation needed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Citation_needed)_]  (Can we find a way around this? Understand dis better)

For example, [Albert O. Hirschman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_O._Hirschman) believed that the free-rider problem is a cyclical one for [capitalist economies](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capitalist_economics). Hirschman considers the free-rider problem to be related to the [shifting interests](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shifting_interest) of people. When stress levels rise on individuals in the workplace and many fear losing their employment, they devote less of their [human capital](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_capital) to the public sphere. When public needs then increase, disenchanted consumers become more interested in [collective action](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collective_action) projects. This leads individuals to organize themselves in various groups and the results are attempts to solve public problems. In effect this reverses the momentum of free riding. Activities often seen as costs in models focused on self-interest are instead seen as benefits for the individuals who were previously dissatisfied consumers seeking their private interests.[_[citation needed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Citation_needed)_]