Decentralized autonomous organizations, or DAOs, have seen immense growth in the past couple years. In this sector as people experiment with building companies on top of tokens and smart contracts in decentralized manners, but as new organization types bloom, so does the need for infrastructure.

Some current estimates put the value governed by DAO [treasuries at over $6 billion]([https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2021/08/03/biggest-daos-now-hold-6b-worth-of-digital-assets-consensys/#:~:text=The 20 largest decentralized autonomous,ConsenSys%2C an Ethereum software company.)](https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2021/08/03/biggest-daos-now-hold-6b-worth-of-digital-assets-consensys/#:~:text=The%2020%20largest%20decentralized%20autonomous,ConsenSys%2C%20an%20Ethereum%20software%20company.)), just in the year of 2021 alone, and the number is certainly growing.

In the dynamic universe of Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), an atmosphere of continuous evolution, learning, and experimentation prevails. The promise of self-managing entities that can redefine work experiences across the globe is particularly inspiring. However, the lack of universally accepted best practices indicates that the field is still in its infancy. This prompts us to consider the analogy of a DAO to an operating system.

Similar to a computer’s operating system there remains a sort of “black box” or layer of abstraction. whereas the logic sequences, and inner components are very much hidden from the modern day user, a DAO operating system could be conceived as the unseen layer of beliefs, principles, and norms that direct a DAO's functionality. Many of the underlying assumptions we have on human behaviors mold our experience, cultivation and interaction with DAOs.

This analogy can provide useful insights into the usually obscured realm of organizational culture. It provides us with a set of conceptual tools that help identify areas where deliberate choices can influence the organization's _modus operandi._

In our analysis, we identify a series of interconnected modules that together create the organizational experience. These are what keeps an organization together, and are it’s _magnetics_:

### MAGNETICS:

1. **Mission:** The core reason for the organization's existence. It's the guiding light for all decision-making.
2. **Assets:** A combination of Resources and Capital. These are the tangible and intangible valuables the organization possesses, including funds, skills, knowledge, and time.
3. **Governance:** Covers Authority and some aspects of Structure. This is the system of rules and procedures that guide decision-making and define roles within the organization.
4. **Network:** This is the collective body of individuals who participates and contribute their skills.
5. **Expertise:** Covers Mastery and Innovation. This encapsulates the organization's knowledge, skills, and capacity for creative thinking and problem-solving.
6. **Tactics:** This is the organization's plan of action designed to achieve its Mission.
7. **Information:** Data and knowledge within the organization and how it's collected, stored, shared, and used.
8. **Compensation:** The system of rewards or incentives for the contributions of the individuals within the organization.
9. **Systems:** The operational methods and processes through which tasks are completed and goals achieved.

[On Chain MAGNETICS?]

By looking at each magnet individually, we gain a fresh perspective on the entire organization and how it’s components truly pull it together. This allows us to question our beliefs about the ideal state of each area, assess our current state, and evaluate whether our actions are driven by deliberate choices or inertia. It also helps identify contradictions in our principles across different fields and examine how challenges or successes in one field might impact others.

The operating system analogy offers a way to view your DAO as a spectrum of distinct colors and intricate patterns, instead of an undifferentiated beam of white light. It presents the organization as an entity that can be understood and interacted with productively, rather than as an obscure amalgamation of behaviors, conversations, and conflicts.

To further our understanding, we have analyzed organizations that have made innovative decisions about their operating systems. We have classified these practices, principles, and assumptions into two categories.

Optimistic Operating Systems: These systems inherently believe in the goodness, trustworthiness, and diligence of people. They trust people deeply and question any policy or process that assumes people need monitoring, coercion, or forced behavior.

In contrast,

Complex Conscious operating systems accept that organizations are complex systems, not mechanical devices. They accommodate for emergent and unexpected behavior by establishing simple rules and guardrails that guide behavior in a minimally restrictive yet useful way.

Evolving your Organizational Operating System is not as straightforward as installing or upgrading a device's software. It’s more useful to view an organization as a species, constantly adapting and evolving over time. Much like organisms create offspring with beneficial mutations, DAOs can experiment with aspects of their operating system to bring about advantageous changes. Experiments that improve the organization's function become the new norm, while unsuccessful ones are replaced.

This process of continuous and participatory change requires a culture of rapid experimentation and freedom. While conventional organizations often falter in this regard, DAOs may struggle with the opposite problem — too much rapid iteration without learning from past experiences. However, the ability to innovate quickly, adapt, and maintain an ethos of innovation is a beautiful and positive facet.